
About
-----

This repository contains my personal dotfiles, which I use on unix systems of
varying flavors. They are published here because I occasionally want to share
them or use them as examples, and this is an easy way to do so. Feel free to
use anything you find here.

Note however, that I do not make any particular effort to make this easy for
others to use. I randomly move things around, add and remove Vim bundles,
according to my needs. If you want to use these dotfiles, I would definitely
suggest forking them to your own repo so you can selectively merge changes as
you see fit. YMMV.

Compatibility
-------------

I am a Zsh user. This repo goes in conjunction with my [oh-my-zsh][] fork. If
you want to use zsh, I suggest cloning that repo into `~/.oh-my-zsh` and
installing the `.z*` files from this repo.

You can use `rake install:zsh` to install my Zsh setup.

Using Bash does not need any external repos. Use `rake install:bash` to
install my Bash setup. I used Bash for many years, and those files are fairly
mature, but I am no longer paying a lot of attention to them.

I regularly use this setup with Mac OS X, Solaris, Linux and FreeBSD systems.

Some parts of the Bash, Zsh, and Vim configs may assume you have 256 color
support in your terminal. If you are using Apple Terminal before OS X Lion,
you don't. Try iTerm2 instead.

<http://sites.google.com/site/iterm2home/>

I have written two blog posts on the subject of iTerm and iTerm2. Give them a
read; color support is only one of several good reasons to switch.

<http://tangledhelix.com/blog/2010/11/20/iterm-terminal/>

<http://tangledhelix.com/blog/2010/12/06/iterm2-iterm/>

Shell colors
------------

The colors in the shell prompts for both Bash and Zsh are currently set up
assuming the terminal is using [Solarized][] (light) as a color scheme. They
may not look very good in other terminal setups.

[solarized]: http://ethanschoonover.com/solarized

The Zsh setup lets you pick from multiple prompts. Run `prompt -l` to
see them, and set what you like in `~/.zshrc`.

Installation
------------

    umask 0022
    git clone https://github.com/tangledhelix/dotfiles.git ~/.dotfiles
    cd ~/.dotfiles
    git submodule init
    git submodule update

To install my dotfiles as *your* dotfiles, you can create symlinks with `rake`.
If you do *not* run the rake command, everything will be isolated inside of
the `.dotfiles` directory and will not interfere with your existing environment.

    rake install:all

Rake will ask you before overwriting any files that already exist.

You can also install subsets of the environment using one of the following.

    rake install:bash
    rake install:zsh
    rake install:vim
    rake install:git

Submodules
----------

Because there are submodules, and some will end up generating vim docs "tags"
files, you may end up seeing stuff like this, which gets annoying:

    dan@mercury{0}[0]$ git status
    # On branch master
    # Changed but not updated:
    #   (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
    #   (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
    #   (commit or discard the untracked or modified content in submodules)
    #
    #       modified:   vim/bundle/L9 (untracked content)
    #       modified:   vim/bundle/fuzzyfinder (untracked content)
    #       modified:   vim/bundle/nerd_commenter (untracked content)
    #       modified:   vim/bundle/snipmate (untracked content)
    #       modified:   vim/bundle/surround (untracked content)
    #       modified:   vim/bundle/unimpaired (untracked content)
    #       modified:   vim/bundle/yankring (untracked content)
    #
    no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")

My `~/.gitconfig` file sets up `~/.gitignore` for global ignoring of certain
files. `~/.gitignore` contains `doc/tags` and `doc/tags-ja` to prevent this
output from happening due to vim's tag files.

With recent versions of git, you can also use the `--ignore-submodule` flag
on `git` commands such as `status`.

